= ultradns4r

<b>Notice: Since my company has moved away from UltraDNS, I no longer have any way of maintaining this project. If you'd like to fork it and take it over, please let me know.</b>

ultradns4r is a Ruby library and command line client for the Neustar UltraDNS SOAP API.

== Installation

1. Install {Ruby}[http://www.ruby-lang.org/]
2. Install {RubyGems}[http://rubygems.org]
3. Install {Savon}[http://github.com/rubiii/savon]
4. Download {ultradns4r.rb}[http://github.com/mconigliaro/ultradns4r/raw/master/ultradns4r.rb]

== Using this library in your own project

  require 'ultradns4r'
  client = UltraDns::Client.new('username', 'password')
  response = client.soap_call('get_server_status')
  pp response

== Using the built-in command line client

1. Create a file called <b>ultradns4r.secret</b> containing your UltraDNS username and password (i.e. on one line separated by whitespace). Note that this file is assumed to be in the current directory by default.
2. See examples below:

=== General usage

  ultradns4r.rb [options] [rr-data][, ...]

- Multiple sets of rr-data can be specified by separating them with commas.
- Records can be deleted by not specifying rr-data.
- All domain names must be fully qualified and end with a period (this is an UltraDNS requirement).

=== Examples

==== Create an A record

  ultradns4r.rb -n test.example.org. 1.1.1.1

==== Create round-robin A records

  ultradns4r.rb -n test.example.org. 1.1.1.1,2.2.2.2,3.3.3.3

==== Create a CNAME record

  ultradns4r.rb -n test.example.org. -t CNAME test.example.org.

==== Create an SRV record

  ultradns4r.rb -n srv.example.org. -t SRV 0 10 20 target.example.org.

=== Help and Troubleshooting

See the <b>--help</b> command line option:

  ultradns4r.rb --help

Use debug logging:

  ultradns4r.rb -v debug
